---
layout: post
title:CP Symmetry: Imperfections Keep The Universe Going  
date: 2020-12-04T17:43:15+05:30
description: The Design Inefficiency
---

![mirror like example of cp
symmetry](https://scinats.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cosmos-92368_1280.jpg){.attachment-post-thumbnail
.size-post-thumbnail .wp-post-image width="1280" height="973"
loading="lazy"
srcset="https://i0.wp.com/scinats.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cosmos-92368_1280.jpg?w=1280&ssl=1 1280w, https://i0.wp.com/scinats.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cosmos-92368_1280.jpg?resize=300%2C228&ssl=1 300w, https://i0.wp.com/scinats.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cosmos-92368_1280.jpg?resize=1024%2C778&ssl=1 1024w, https://i0.wp.com/scinats.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cosmos-92368_1280.jpg?resize=768%2C584&ssl=1 768w"
sizes="(max-width: 1280px) 100vw, 1280px"}

*CP Symmetry ( Charge Parity and Symmetry Parity) problem is one of the
greatest mysteries of physics. The [standard model of
physics](https://www.symmetrymagazine.org/article/july-2015/standard-model){.rank-math-link
aria-label="standard model of physics (opens in a new tab)"
rel="noreferrer noopener" target="_blank"} predicts that matter and
[anti-matter](https://scinats.com/index.php/2020/09/19/about-antimatter/){.rank-math-link
aria-label="anti-matter (opens in a new tab)" rel="noreferrer noopener"
target="_blank"} should have annihilated each other until nothing
remained. Yet the universe exists in all it's grandeur as is evident
with the first breath you take.*

Humans judge beauty by symmetry. Studies show that we judge a person of
symmetric face to be better looking than one with less symmetry.
Interestingly, the case of CP symmetry is just this human bias entering
the scientific world. This is not the first time that such a bias has
been made in science. "Einstein's greatest blunder" is another case of
the same bias. Here we look at how chasing a perfection in the universe
went wrong and the eventual realization that the universe is imperfect.

Interestingly, annihilation happens when a particle hits an antiparticle
or matter vs antimatter war. If you are new to our blog, you [can read
other articles from here to grasp the concepts
used](https://scinats.com/author/prabin/){.rank-math-link} in easy
language.

However, this requires the particles and anti-particles to be exact
opposites in charge, space (parity), and time. So that when they collide
nothing remains but energy. However, in our universe, there is the
presence of [more matter than
anti-matter.](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-is-there-more-matter-than-antimatter/){.rank-math-link
target="_blank" rel="noopener"}


> So, is that an error 404?

It gives rise to one of the biggest problem of physics which is still
not solved. So, why are you waiting, go and try to solve it? The next
Nobel Prize in physics can be all yours. The question is "In Observable
Universe, why there is the presence of more matter than anti-matter?"

## What exactly is CP Symmetry?
