---
layout: post
title:  The last day of M.Sc.
date: 2023-07-18 13:16:00
description: 
tags: 
categories: 
thumbnail: 
---
I woke up at 5am in the morning and then dozed on and off for another two hours. When wakefulness came at about 7, I was desperately late to do any useful revision. So I took a look at my notes, the ppt slides and a few PDFs for 2 hours before I had to leave my room. 
The exam room was already filled except the two of us, and the examiner asked us to sit quickly. I was feeling a certain way. It was not fear or anxiety that one feels before an exam but a sort of tiredness. I didn't want to do the exam. As I stared at the paper, I realized how easy it was.
As I thought about the answer, my brain wandered. A little supernova burst up with pressure, the metal factory was in full pace just a moment ago, and now it has exploded. Its dying glory can be seen from thousands of light years. But no, I wasn't supposed to go there. I was supposed to write down the affine connections given a metric. Einstein had used them in his general theory of relativity, and cosmologist use them today to find the behavior of bodies close to that supernovae. I was not interested. 
But today was not about my interest. It was about a sheet of paper. A sheet of paper that could define my future. The future that would be better if I had studied the subject. Now it lies miserably in the hands and mood of the examiner. 
With this, I have completed the requirements of a Master’s Degree in Physics.
